---
layout: section
title: Singing in Unison
nav-title: About Singing in Unison
permalink: /singing-in-unison/
description:
order: 8
---

For democracy to survive, Alexis de Tocqueville, in his Democracy in America (1835–40), proposed the term “art of joining” as opposed to self-isolation. For when we voluntarily join in associations in order to further the interests of the group, we therefore serve our own interests. Similarly, Horace Kallen in _Democracy Versus the Melting Pot_ (1915), advocated instead of assimilating all Americans into the melting pot under the premise of broadly Anglo-Saxon American identity, they ought to be free to exercise their distinct cultural heritage and the differences that they brought with them. The aspiration of cultural pluralism is analogous to a symphony, a musical platform from which each player is embraced for their specific instrument with a specific sound, each contributing in unison to the symphonic sound. In 2022, Rail Curatorial Projects presented an ongoing series of exhibitions entitled “Singing in Unison,” featuring works of art, made by artists, shown side-by-side, young and old, taught and self-taught, emerging and established, which thus far been presented at Art Cake, Scully Tomasko Foundation, TOTAH, Below Grand, Ricco/Maresca, Miguel Abreu, and Industry City.

_Singing in Unison, Part 8_: Between Waves, curated by Alice, Nien-Pu Ko, attests a similar ethos by focusing on the regions of Asia-Pacific. As Fijian anthropologist Epeli Hau’ofa had suggested in his _Our Sea of Islands_ (1993), there’s also a smallness and isolation inherent to islands—referring to the “Ocean of Islands,” some 25,000 islands, islets, and atolls are scattered amidst the Pacific Ocean, and nearly 1,000 languages spoken in total. Drawing on histories, oceanic myths, stories, in addition to the shared political traumas resulting from colonialism, militarism, warfare (global, nuclear), and ecological disaster, many of the regions remain in constant flux: an ever-changing militarization throughout the islands. Concurrently, in implementing the coexistence of traditional and modern thinking as responses to the growing geopolitical tensions, conflicting social values, among other frictions, this exhibition explores these layers of complexity through the works of seventeen artists, filmmakers, photographers, poets, musicians, and thinkers from Taiwan, Japan, the Philippines, Borneo, Jeju Island, the Hawaiian islands, American Samoa, and New Zealand.
